Welcome back.
Let's do a fun little exercise by revisiting a piece of code that we've written before.
Remember the random no guessing game where we had to guess a number between 1 and 10.
If I run this file you see that it asked me to guess.
So let's say one two three four five six seven eight nine.
And I finally get the number.
You are a genius.
The number was 9.
So how can we test this code.
Now one thing you'll notice here is that we don't really have a function.
I remember when I told you about functional programming and how it's good to break up our code into
small bits of functions that do one thing and one thing really well especially pure functions.
Well one of the big benefits with that mentality is that you create code that is really really easy
to test instead of having really complicated logic in our tests.
We can simply give our functions an input and expect an output.
And this is why we have unit test.
And the idea of a unit test is that we're testing each piece of unit.
These unit tests are small little pieces testing these simple functions.
So my challenge to you is to use this code and try to break this up into simple functions.
Now in our case I want us to just test this part of the code which is the guessing part where we receive
an input which will be the guests and then test it against some random answer that we have and we should
expect some sort of output so either we enter a number has to be one to 10 and if we get a right we
have to get the string but the key here is that we probably want to move this into a function that we
can test.
We can't ignore the outside world and break this up into its own little function so pause the video
here give it a go.
You're gonna have to get through some stumbling blocks but it's going to really test your understanding
of tests.
Haha funny that was upon so pass a video give it a go.
Otherwise I'm going to get going with the answer.
The first thing I want to do is to set up my test again.
I'm going to import unit test and I'm going to create the class test.
Main or let's call a test script this time or test game.
I'm going to say unit test dot test case.
This is going to be our test case.
And then here I'll create let's say just a simple test let's say
game or test input
received the self and for now I'm just going to pass this because we're not really doing anything finally.
I'll say if
name because to me then run the unit test dot me.
So this is just our simple setup so if we run this now let's say Python 3 test out by you see that we
ran one test.
All right.
So this is our setup next.
What I want to do is actually take this out so I can use it in my test filed by extracting it into a
function.
So I'm just going to say at the top over here I'm going to define our guess gain or let's call it run
guess that's going to receive a input or let's say a guess and then it's going to run this code.
So let's do that.
I'm going to take this piece of code like this and simply paste it in here.
Now the wrong guess is also going to need the answer variable so I'm going to give it a second parameter
answer like this.
So that now I can just simply inside of here run this function with the guests and answer just like
that.
So let's save it here and run this test or let's just run the actual file to make sure that it's still
working.
Oh and we get a bit of an indentation error so we have to make sure that our indentation is correct
because remember in Python that means something.
All right now we have an issue.
We have a break outside of loop because while we were using the break keyword and while we're outside
of a loop right now so one thing we can do is we can say return here.
So let's run that again and keep guessing a name
or a number.
And there you go.
This is still working.
I'm able to use return here because this well is going to run and return.
But now we're still inside of the game so maybe we can just return TRUE AND SAY IF run gets is true
we're going to break out of this
again let's out our game.
We want to just clear this and run the game again.
One two three four.
And there you go.
I've enter a number.
I'm a genius.
We've just finished the game.
Let's make this a little bit smaller just so you can see so we have our run.
Guess I've modified the code a bit but the key thing is that I've extracted out a unit of functionality
so that I can test something like run guess so it looks like I have modified our code but the code is
still working.
So now let's start testing our wrong guess.
Function let's go here and start importing our script
and in here do a few things.
First I want the answer to let's say equal five And the guess is going to equal five.
So we want to make sure that if the guests and the answer match that well the wrong guess goes through
the if statement and prints out you are a genius or in our case returns true so let's say self dot assert
equal that script or actually first time around let's actually run it.
So let's have result equals do script dot what was it run guess run guess and give it the answer.
And guess
and we expect the result to return true so we can just say assert true that the result is true.
If I now run this
oh we actually start up the game.
So how can we fix this.
Well we can close this and actually add the if name main
so down here we'll say Hey only run this if this is the main file being run just like that if I go back
to test here and run this again.
All right.
Now it's working but I get an assertion error test game object has no attribute assert true because
while I misspelled it let's try that again all right.
It looks like one test ran and everything is good.
We also see that it printed out.
You are a genius.
Very very nice.
By the way I'm showing you this way of testing because this is how a real life scenario looks.
You keep breaking things you keep making mistakes and then you try and fix them and correct your code
and you can see our code is already looking better and better just by running these tests OK.
What else can we do.
Let's say here that we're going to copy this and just so things are shorter.
I'm just going to directly enter the parameters in here.
Just like that say taste input let's say.
Incorrect or
wrong guess so let's say the answer is five and I guess zero so we want to assert that this is going
to equal false so if I run this two tests are passing that's awesome.
What else can we test here.
All right well we want to test that if the guess is not between zero and 10 or between 1 and 10.
In that case we want to have a print of Hey Bozo.
I said wanted 10.
So once again I can test
that if my guess wrong number let's say the answer is five.
But I give you eleven.
We want to assert Well right now we're printing and not doing anything.
So maybe we should return false.
Just to have some consistency here
again.
If I do that and I run there you know three tests are passing.
That's great.
And there's many many more tests that we can write maybe let's do one more test which is to test what
if the input is a string if I run this and make sure that wrong type here.
Make sure the names are different and I have four Tests running because this isn't going to pass and
it's going to return false.
Now there's many more things that we can do here but you can see the power of test right now.
If you have different test than me that's OK.
Everybody test cases are different.
The whole point of testing is to just simply look at our code and see how we can improve it how we can
break our code how we can simplify our code by breaking it into smaller units smaller units that can
be tested and fix some errors that perhaps we wouldn't have thought about.
Now there's many more things that we can do.
But you noticed here how the idea was to work on small piece at a time test it and then maybe further
on we can look at this part of the code or maybe the.
Try and accept part of the code.
And here's the thing when you're working for a company I argue that there are an infinite number of
tests they can do.
You can have hundreds of lines here to test your code to bits.
But just because you're testing as many times as possible doesn't really make your tests good.
Like I said there's an infinite number of tests that you can write and the idea is to write good quality
tests that cover most of your cases but eventually you'll have diminishing returns where you have to
have a tradeoff between writing code and writing tests and sometimes depending on what the job requires
you might have to focus more on tests and focus less on code or sometimes maybe you need to move fast
and you don't have time to write tests.
And again depending on the business needs that might be the case too.
But with this section I hope you understand some of the principles following testing in software development
that is bugs are always going to arise in our code and we can use lending to help us with this.
But one of the best ways to make sure that our code is working properly is test.
And the more tests that we have usually means the more stable our code I'll see in the next one by.